# BuilderGen

## Intro
BuilderGen uses APT and CoreModel to generate builders (following Josh Bloch's Builder Pattern) at compile time.

## Steps

* Configure your project to use BuilderGen annotation processing (no doc yet, please look at the example)
* Add @Buildable to any class you wish.
* A builder is automatically created.

## Code example

Suppose you have a Person class :

	@Buildable
	public class Person {
	
	    private final int age;
	    private final String name;
	
	    Person(String name, int age) {
	        this.name = name;
	        this.age = age;
	    }
	    // [...]
	}

BuilderGen automatically generates a PersonBuilder, and you can now do the following: 

    PersonBuilder builder = PersonBuilder.create();
    Person john42 = builder.name("John Smith").age(42).build();
    Person john69 = builder.age(69).build();
    
If the class has multiple constructors, you should annotate the one to use with @Build.


Have a look at the nicely generated PersonBuilder code :

	//
	// WARNING: do not edit this file, it has been generated using BuilderGen: https://github.com/pyricau/BuilderGen.
	//
	
	
	package info.piwai.buildergen.bean;
	
	import javax.annotation.Generated;
	import info.piwai.buildergen.api.Builder;
	
	
	/**
	 * Builder for the {@link Person } class.<br />
	 * <br />
	 * This builder implements Joshua Bloch's builder pattern, to let you create {@link Person } instances 
	 * without having to deal with complex constructor parameters.
	 * It has a fluid interface, which mean you can chain calls to its methods.<br />
	 * <br />
	 * You can create a new {@link PersonBuilder } instance by calling the {@link #create()} static method, 
	 * or its constructor directly.<br />
	 * <br />
	 * When done with settings fields, you can create {@link Person } instances 
	 * by calling the {@link #build()} method.
	 * Each call will return a new instance.<br />
	 * <br />
	 * You can call setters multiple times, and use this builder as an object template.
	 * 
	 */
	@Generated(comments = "Generated by BuilderGen", value = "info.piwai.buildergen.processing.BuilderGenProcessor", date = "2011-03-15T21:02:47.057+0100")
	public class PersonBuilder
	    implements Builder<Person>
	{
	
	    private String name;
	    private int age;
	
	    /**
	     * Setter for the name parameter.
	     * 
	     * @param name
	     *     the value for the name constructor parameter of the {@link Person } class.
	     * @return
	     *     this, ie the {@link PersonBuilder } instance, to enable chained calls.
	     */
	    public PersonBuilder name(String name) {
	        this.name = name;
	        return this;
	    }
	
	    /**
	     * Setter for the age parameter.
	     * 
	     * @param age
	     *     the value for the age constructor parameter of the {@link Person } class.
	     * @return
	     *     this, ie the {@link PersonBuilder } instance, to enable chained calls.
	     */
	    public PersonBuilder age(int age) {
	        this.age = age;
	        return this;
	    }
	
	    /**
	     * Creates {@link Person } instances based on this builder fields.<br />
	     * <br />
	     * The builder keeps its state after this method has been called.
	     * 
	     * @return
	     *     a new {@link Person } instance.
	     */
	    public Person build() {
	        return new Person(name, age);
	    }
	
	    /**
	     * Static factory method for {@link PersonBuilder } instances.
	     * 
	     * @return
	     *     a new {@link PersonBuilder } instance
	     */
	    public static PersonBuilder create() {
	        return new PersonBuilder();
	    }
	
	}
